Testing 
Its a process of execution program, intention is to find-out bugs
Its also called as validation and verification 
It also means checking the expected values with respect to actual values

Types of applications:
    1. Windows application or standalone application(requires no internet, single tier application)
    2. Web applications(browser interaction, two tier application )
    3. Client and Server applications(browser, database and application, three tier application)

Debugging is not testing activity , It is a step by step execution of program
Logic Error, Syntax Error, Program Error

Testing is done by testers. It is a process of execution program and intention to find bugs

Bug: Deviation from requirement. Bug term is treated by testing environment in STLS(Software testing Lifecycle) phase.

Defect: Deviation from specifications. Defect  term is treated by developers in SDLS(Software Development Lifecycle) phase.

Necessity of Testing 
    1. To gain Customer confidence
    2. To withstand in business 
    3. To avoid extra cost
    4. To optimize in business
    5. To avoid risk

Psychology or Motive of testing:
1. To identify the defects so that tester needs to verify business requirements specifications and software requirement specifications 
2. To help develop the quality of the product
3. To ensure and satisfy the business and user requirements 
4. To provide defects

Product vs Project 
Project is also called as application. It is developed according to single client requirement.
Examples: banking Applications, Healthcare applications, Insurance Applications

Product is developed according to market requirement and is used for multiple clients.
Example: Lenovo, Amazon, Flipkart, Myntra, etc.

FRS doc is designed by end users.
7 principles of testing:
1) Testing shld start asap in requirement else, it shows defects.
2) Exhaustive testing is impossible.
3) Testing is context dependent.http://testfire.net/
4) Absence of error is a fallacy.
5) Pesticide Paradox : if u execute same testcases again and again, tester will not find new bugs.
6) Defect Clustering : Project is divided into module, so module is divided into sub-module, sub-modules are divided into micros. Each module defects will be recorded as separate. This techniques is defect clustering.
7) Early testing saves time and money.

Quality Assurance and Quality Control:

Quality Assurance : Developers are more involved in quality assurance. It comes under SDLC. It is a process of identifying the bugs. 

Quality Control: Testers are more involved in quality control. It is a process of error correction and detection. It comes under SDLC.

Types of Testing:
1) White box testing
2) Black box testing
3) Grey box testing
4) User acceptance testing

White Box Testing:
Done by developers. Testing of an application using internal structure of programming knowledge is called White Box testing. Two types: 1)unit testing, 2)integration testing.

i) Unit Testing: Micro unit of source code is called unit testing.
Types of unit testing : 
1) Basis path testing
2) Statement technique coverages
3) Program technique coverages
4) Loops coverages
5) Cyclomatic complexity

ii) Integration Testing : Checking the data flow between the modules. Done by developers and testers.
Types of integration testing:
1) Bottom Up approach (Stub)
2) Top Down approach
3) Hybrid approach

Black Box Testing:
Testing an application without using internal structure. Also called "dynamic testing"; "structural testing", "clear box testing" and "close box testing".
Types:
1) Functional testing.
2) Non Functional testing.

Black Box Test Case Design techniques:
1) Equivalence class partition
2) Boundary value analysis
3) Decision tables
4) State transition techniques
5) Error Guessing

Boundary Value Analysis: It mainly focusses on boundaries. formula: +/- Min, +/-Max.

Decision Table : Also called "cause - effect"

Error Guessing : tester enters multiple inputs to the application and validates correctness and completeness of the app under test.

SDLC vs STLC: 

Information collection / SRS / Feasibility study -> Analysis -> Design -> Coding -> Testing -> Release and maintenance.

Test Plan Specification -> Test scenarios -> Test case design technique -> test execution levels -> defect reporting -> Test closure.

Test Plan : it is doc prepared by project manager or team leader or test engineers. Test Plan describes what to test, when to test, how to test, whom to test and where to test.

Test Strategy : It is a doc which comes within the plan,
strategies change but test plan never changes.

Case Studies for test scenarios:
Prepare minimum 10 scenarios based on the selected application

Test case is a document prepared by test engineers, it describes actions, test data, pre-conditions, expected values and actual values and state of application under test. It describes detailed functionality of application, how to test.

Characteristics of good test cases:
1. it should be simple and clear so that even layman can understand.
2. it should be readable, independent, repeatable, maintainable.
3. same test cases should not repeat multiple times.
4. it should meet all customer functional requirements.

Defect Classification:
1. Severity - assigned by QA testers, it affects the functionality of the application. Severity describes seriousness of the defect and impact on the business flow or functionality. it is classified into:
Blocker, Critical, major, minor.
2. Priority: it does not affect functionality of application. It is assigned by developer. 3  stages: High(P0), Medium(p1), Low(p2)
3. Status: according to istqb ("Tester never fixes the bug, they only find bugs")
i. New
ii. Assigned:
 3 statuses:
 deferred(bug is genuine but we can fix it in next sprint or next cycle or next version), 
 rejected(bug has no genuine meaning),
 duplicate(same bug is repeated multiple times)
iii. Open

High Priority, High severity
High Priority, low severity
low Priority, low severity
low Priority, High severity

Examples for low priority: logo mistakes, help docs/ user manuals are not in proper format, spelling mistakes, grammar mistakes, alignments/fonts.

Requirement Traceability Matrix: We need it to test all test cases
Mapping requirements with test cases is forward traceability
Test cases with requirement is called backward traceability
bi directional combines both

31-08-2026
Testing Terminology:
1. Smoke testing
2. Sanity testing
3. Ad-hoc testing
4. Exploratory testing
5. Regression testing
6. Re- testing
7. Monkey testing/ gorilla testing

Smoke testing : once developer develops build(.exe file), this build will be deployed in testing environment. once tester deploys this build into testing environment, tester checks the stability of the application.
Ex: login/logout functionality working

Sanity testing : checking important functionalities or critical functionality of the application is called sanity testing.

Ad-hoc testing : checking the or testing the functionality of the application using pre-defined ideas. no rules or regulations will be followed.

Exploratory testing : Testing an application with the help of developers due to lack of domain knowledge.

Monkey testing : due to lack of time, tester will test the application randomly. also used for gaming application.

Regression testing : whenever tester is testing initial build functionalities, modified build functionality should not affect or initial build functionality should not affect.

Re-testing : Once developer assign bug status, tester re-opens bug to check expected values = actual values.

Testing Levels:
Unit testing
Integration testing
System testing
User acceptance testing

Non-functional testing types :
Graphical user interface testing
Recovery testing
Installation testing
Configuration testing
Compatibility testing
Security testing
Performance testing
Under performance testing
Stress testing
10. eek testing
11. Endurance testing
12. Spike testing
13. localization/ internationalization testing

Graphical user interface testing: tester will test user friendly factors of an application: 
i) Help documents,
ii) Font size, color, alignment, 
iii) logo mistakes, wrong logos, 
iv) grammar mistakes, spelling mistakes 
v) windows overlapping, images overlapping 
vi) menu bar, footer and headers

2. Recovery testing:
during normal flow of execution or working condition, incase unwanted errors occur, tester will check whether recovery functions are working or not to get normal state of the application.

3. Installation testing:
During installation, tester verifies below factors:
i) Setup.exe files
ii) Uninstallation files
iii) Repair files
iv) update files
v) delete files
vi) memory allocation in particular drive
vii) During installation, any pop up messages

4. Configuration testing
Testing the application in different versions of OS

5. Compatibility testing: types : forward and backward.
Testing the applications using different browsers is called compatibility, in automation it is called parallel testing.

6. Security Testing : to prevent from unauthorized users.

Test Execution Levels:

Level 0(build acceptance testing)
Level 1(Smoke/sanity testing)
Level 2(Regression testing)
level 3(Final Regression testing)

Automation Testing: Testing an application by using tools.
TDD-Test driven development: focus is on code.
BDD- Behavior driven development: it focuses on behavior of application.




